Now here are some challenges ahead of you.
The business does not seem in many cases to view IT as a strategic partner.
Many CIOs or senior IT people may not invited to participate in any of the
organization wide strategic planning or decision making sessions.
The business isn't interested in strategic IT planning potentially,
so you will need to push and shove your way to the table.
Next the IT department does not have the expertise or capacity to
develop an effective strategic plan for IT.
IT strategy management requires a highly specialized
skill set and resource commitment.
It is rarely a success approach as a side activity.
So your solution,
have a quarterly planning activity for you and your key
team members to develop a strategic plan.
Next and last,
IT strategies tend to focus mainly on technology and
fail to cover other business areas.
IT strategies are often too technical and written in a
language the business cannot understand.
Solution, it must focus and be aligned with the business.
Your plan must focus and be aligned with the business.
And now let's see an approach.
Bottom line, what are you going to do?
Business drivers and requirements.
When are you going to do it?
Priority.
And how are you going to do it?
The resources.
So this section and this whole module will focus on how I can help you put
together your IT strategies to align to the business.
Based on the challenges on the previous slide,
here are your resolutions,
here's how you're going to solve those challenges from the previous slide.
The key is to work with the business when developing your IT plans.
A solid understanding of business needs combined with a mutual
understanding of drivers and constraints will help you create a
very effective approach and plan.
Creating and executing a successful IT plan will help
drive IT into a leadership role,
especially if the organization has not yet
formulated a formal strategy of its own.
Next,
articulate a clear IT strategy that aligns IT with the
business objectives is the most important activity you can do
for the IT department or organization.
The strategic planning exercise requires that the CIO or director,
manager, or you, review the business environment,
assess the current state of IT,
define the target state that is aligned with the organizational priorities,
and focus efforts on IT initiatives that'll bring
tangible benefits and value to the business.
Lastly a note,
I use the term CIO or Chief Information Officer generically in this course,
not every company has the formal role,
but every company has the role of an informal fashion by default,
someone, maybe it's you or an IT director,
IT manager, IT team leader, et cetera,
who is responsible to deliver IT products and services to the
company that must be aligned with the business. So for this course I'm targeting you as my audience.